Introduction to Artificial Intelligence – Dwayne D’Souza – Assignment 1

Artificial Intelligence is by far humanities most ambitious project, being at the current technological feat requiring a great amount of engineering and scientific knowledge. Over the past couple of years, we have made an astonishing progress improving the optimisation and output immensely. Artificial intelligence capabilities to learn and adapt to wide range of problems and situations has made it surprisingly robust and holistic, giving it the practical knowledge to properly interact with out world, whilst having the limitless intelligence of our operating systems, with answers and solutions given at the fraction of a second. And although, it sounds like we’ve been given God’s ear, this is far from the reality of it as Artificial Intelligence is plagued with several risks and dangers that could be detrimental to our society making it completely contrary to the Heaven on Earth sentiment that often floated around Artificial Intelligence discussions. 
Artificial Intelligence presents humanity with a serious conundrum in question to it is ethical, social, and political issues surrounding its existence, and how, if it all practical, to manage and control Artificial Intelligence (). To ensure that it is beneficial to humanity whilst reigning its development to ensure humanities safety and preservation in both a physical and social sense. 
As of right now, Artificial Intelligence has made great strides however, we should worry about superintelligence and the singularity. It may seem like an outlandish questioning; however, it should not be taken with grain of salt. Artificial Intelligence as it stands has two types that revolve around the technology. Physical, which refers to doing martial work and labour, such as robots and automatic machinery. And Intangible, which refers to the inbuilt programmed intelligence such as ChatGPT and Deep Seek.
As is stands, both types of Artificial Intelligence threaten our job market and security, where many tasks, both blue collared and white collared roles are at threat to overnight become obsolete. Physical jobs that are being threatened include roles such as drivers and factory workers, and Intangible jobs being threatened include roles such as programmers and graphical designers. These displays unbelievably large scope Artificial Intelligence has over our livelihoods, and how many people and families would be applicably affected by layoffs, Ensuring a level of Artificial Intelligence dominances over certain jobs, which challenges our significance, status and independence, as we’ll lose both our refined skill of trade, alongside becoming more dependent on Artificial Intelligence. Moreover, Artificial Intelligence eventually be refined and developed where it will more functionality and capability to overcome more challenges and take away more livelihoods, securing Artificial Intelligence singularity over humanity. 
The scope of my essay revolves around 
Methodology is how you conduct research, how to form
Scope is 	
   


